The English singer-songwriter Adele has received various awards and nominations. She is the recipient of sixteen Grammy Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, a Golden Globe Award, eighteen Billboard Music Awards, twelve Brit Awards, five American Music Awards, and two Ivor Novello Awards, each for Songwriter of the Year.
Adele signed a contract with the record label XL Recordings in September 2006. She won the BBC Sound of 2008, an annual poll awarded to recognise newcomers in the music industry. Later in the same year, she won the Brits Critics' Choice, and released her debut album 19 to international success. Adele was named the Best New Artist at the 51st Annual Grammy Awards, while "Chasing Pavements" received three nominations for Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, winning the later award. Her debut single "Hometown Glory" earned another nomination for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards.
Adele's second studio album 21 was released in January 2011 and held the top position for 24 weeks in the United States. Three of its singles—"Rolling in the Deep", "Someone like You", and "Set Fire to the Rain"—reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100. The former won three Grammy Awards – Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Short Form Music Video. 21 won Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album. "Someone like You" and "Set Fire to the Rain" won Best Pop Solo Performance at the 54th and 55th Annual Grammy Awards, respectively. Adele was awarded several other accolades, including the Echo Music Award for Album of the Year, and won in 12 Billboard Music Award categories. In 2012, she released "Skyfall", a song of the 2012 James Bond film of the same name. The song won a Brit Award for British Single; the Academy Award, and Golden Globe for Best Original Song; and a Grammy Award. Adele received five awards at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards, including one for her third studio album 25. She also won the British Album of the Year at the 36th Brit Awards, in addition to winning three other awards. The album also won Grammy Awards for Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album, and the single "Hello" received Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards. After a six years hiatus, Adele released her fourth studio album 30 to critical acclaim and global success. The album has garnered her four nominations at the 42nd Brit Awards, including her third consecutive win for British Album of the Year. The album also received six nominations at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards, including her third consecutive nomination for Album of the Year.