Shreya Ghoshal (Bengali pronunciation: [ʃreja ɡʱoʃal]; born 12 March 1984), is an Indian singer. Noted for her wide vocal range and versatility, she is one of the most prolific and influential  singers of India.Praised for her remarkable vocal expressions she is often described as 'the queen of dynamics'. She has recorded songs for films and albums in various Indian and foreign languages and received numerous accolades, including five National Film Awards, four Kerala State Film Awards, two Tamil Nadu State Film Awards, two BFJA Awards, six Filmfare Awards and ten Filmfare Awards South.
Ghoshal began learning music at the age of four. Beginning her training in classical music at the age of six, she made her singing debut with the 2002 romantic drama Devdas (2002) after winning the television singing reality show Sa Re Ga Ma. Her debut songs "Bairi Piya" and "Dola Re Dola" were instant successes and won her the National Film Award for Best Female Playback Singer. She went on to receive four more National Awards for "Dheere Jalna", "Yeh Ishq Haaye", "Pherari Mon", "Jeev Rangla", and "Maayava Thooyava".
She won the Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer in five languages: "Dola Re Dola", "Jaadu Hai Nasha Hai", "Barso Re", "Teri Ore", "Deewani Mastani", "Ghoomar" (six Hindi), "Munbe Vaa", "Un Perai Sollum" (two Tamil), "Jagadhananda Karaka", "Mandaraa Mandaraa" (two Telugu), "Kizhakku Pookkum", "Paattil Ee Paattil", "Vijanathayil", "Kaathirunnu" (four Malayalam) and "Ninna Nodulenthu" and "Gaganave Baagi" (two Kannada). Some of her other notable songs include "Suna Suna", "Agar Tum Mil Jao", "Piyu Bole", "Mere Dholna", "Bahara", "Ooh La La", "Saibo", "Chikni Chameli", "Saans", "Sunn Raha Hai", "Nagada Sang Dhol", "Manwa Laage", "Pookkalae Sattru Oyivedungal", "Mohe Rang Do Laal", "Thodi Der", "Ghar More Pardesiya", "Param Sundari" and "Guli Mata".
Apart from playback singing, Ghoshal has appeared as a judge on several television reality shows and in music videos. She has been honoured by the state of Ohio in the United States, where Governor Ted Strickland declared 26 June 2010 as "Shreya Ghoshal Day". In April 2013, she was honoured in London by the selected members of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. She has been featured five times in the Forbes list of the top 100 celebrities from India. Another day was honoured on her name when John Cranley, the Mayor of the City of Cincinnati proclaimed 24 July 2015 as "Shreya Ghoshal Day of Entertainment and Inspiration" in Cincinnati. In 2017, Ghoshal became the first Indian singer to have her wax figure displayed in the Indian wing of Madame Tussauds Museum in Delhi. She was honoured for the third time in June 2024, when Kirk Watson, the mayor of the City of Austin, Texas, United States also proclaimed 15 June 2024, as the "Shreya Ghoshal Day".